---
title: X3 Follow-Up
author: Paul Cutler
type: post
date: 2005-06-10T12:11:18+00:00
url: /blog/2005/06/x3-follow-up/
categories:
  - Entertainment
  - Movies

---
As I [blogged the other day][1], talking to a cow-orker in the know, Kelsey Grammar will be playing Beast in the upcoming X-men 3 movie.

My cow-orker is pretty excited about it as he thinks it&#8217;s the perfect role. I can see it &#8211; he has the speech mannerisms down to play a smart scientist. He and I share the same concerns about Bret Ratner directing though.

Jeffrey Wells&#8217; [Hollywood Elsewhere][2] column had a brief mention of Ratner taking over in his &#8220;Wired&#8221; blog like piece on the front page, seperate from the stories he writes, that&#8217;s pretty harsh as well:

> 06/ 9/2005 5:53 AM
  
> The fanboy community freaked last week when 20th Century Fox announced their decision to hire Breet Ratner to direct X-Men 3. Ratner will of course degrade the franchise. Not in any thuddingly obvious way but in a hundred little ways. One of these is his decision to add more laughs. &#8220;Not jokes for the sake of jokes,&#8221; Ratner said in a recent interview, but &#8220;jokes that come from character humor, that come from characters and that come from the situations.&#8221; This sounds to me like a guy saying he doesn&#8217;t entirely get (much less get off on) the X-Men mythology or metaphor, and that he&#8217;s a tiny bit bored by it so why not throw in some more gags? As Red Dragon was to Silence of the Lambs, X-Men 3&#8230;we know how this sentence ends, dont we? X-Men 3 will begin shooting in Vancouver in mid-August.

 [1]: http://www.paulcutler.org/blog/?p=290
 [2]: http://www.hollywood-elsewhere.com/index.php