---
title: Alias 4.0
author: Paul Cutler
type: post
date: 2005-01-14T13:03:37+00:00
url: /blog/2005/01/alias-40/
categories:
  - Entertainment
  - TV

---
Over a year ago when the 2003 TV season started, [I blogged about Alias rebooting for the third time][1].

After sitting on my TiVo for over a week, I sat down and watched this season&#8217;s premiere and the current episode. We&#8217;re now on to Alias 4.0, another reboot to start the 4th season. I enjoy the show, but it&#8217;s getting harder to suspend my disbelief after all of the plot holes that open up every time they decide to start over.

This time, we find Sydney, Jack, Vaughn and Dixon have been transferred to a black ops division of the CIA. (The show can now just ignore the whole workings of the CIA). And guess who they&#8217;re working for &#8211; Sloan! We have now recreated SD-6, but sanctioned by the CIA now. By the end of the 2nd episode, Weiss & Marshall are working for them now.

I&#8217;ll give them some credit &#8211; continuing plot points are still there, with the tension between Sydney and Jack regarding her mother, Rombaldi, and Vaugh and Sydney&#8217;s romance. I&#8217;ll give it a try, but I&#8217;m at the end of the line. I&#8217;m all for watching a well done espionage with a beautiful heroine, but at least try and keep a plot for more than one season. I understand that people didn&#8217;t watch the show because they couldn&#8217;t follow the plot if they missed an episode or two, but dammit people, buy a TiVo. That&#8217;s my favorite part of shows like Alias & 24.

 [1]: http://www.paulcutler.org/blog/index.php?p=68