---
title: Football!
author: Paul Cutler
type: post
date: 2006-01-03T00:02:50+00:00
url: /2006/01/football/
categories:
  - Badgers
  - Football
  - Packers
  - Sports

---
I love this time of the year &#8211; I think I&#8217;ve watched a football game every day for the last 10 days. Even the first few bowl games with teams you&#8217;ve rarely heard of we&#8217;re quite good (and I&#8217;m still laughing at George O&#8217;Leary).

I was ecstatic to see the Badgers win decisively in Coach Alvarez&#8217;s last game. I had been walking around the last few days convinced that what the analysts said was true &#8211; Auburn&#8217;s defense was going to rip in to Wisconsin, and the Badgers had little chance to win. Was I wrong &#8211; the Badgers won, and won big. Forget about the 10.5 point underdog status &#8211; Auburn couldn&#8217;t get it together all day and the Badgers offense was hot in the first half, and the defense played a heck of a game.

I was shocked to see the Packers fire Mike Sherman today &#8211; it wasn&#8217;t the $6 million they owe him for the last two years of his contract, it&#8217;s the question of who will replace him. In a year where there will be more head coaching vacancies than normal, will there be enough talent to go around? I also question if Ted Thompson is doing it for the right reasons &#8211; is Sherman definitely the wrong guy, or is Thompson trying to put his stamp on the team.

Time will tell. This leads me to believe Favre will retire, and is will be interesting to watch the Packers enter the next generation.