---
title: UT3 Delays
author: Paul Cutler
type: post
date: 2008-02-27T16:14:33+00:00
url: /blog/2008/02/ut3-delays/
categories:
  - Games
  - Linux
  - PC Games
tags:
  - Linux
  - unreal tournament
  - UT3

---
Phoronix has [another story up][1] on the continued delay of the UT3 Linux client, ported by Ryan Gordon, aka [icculus][2].

One sentenced in the story rubbed me the wrong way:

> Ryan Gordon, the one responsible for the Unreal Tournament Linux ports, has yet to provide the Linux gaming community with any status update or respond to our inquiries.

I don&#8217;t understand how it is Ryan&#8217;s responsibility to provide an update. It has already been covered multiple times that the Linux client is [hung up due to a legal issue][3] with some offending code in the game. We should be grateful Ryan clued us in originally to what the delay was. However, Ryan works for Epic as a contractor &#8211; he&#8217;s not an official employee, and he shouldn&#8217;t be the one responsible for updating the community. As it&#8217;s a legal issue, of course he&#8217;s not going to comment. The constant speculation and conspiracy theories have grown old quickly.

If someone wants an official quote, they should be talking to someone at Epic&#8217;s office, maybe Mark Rein. I subscribe to the UT3 mailing list, and the number of questions, comments and rampant speculation on this issue, as well as the the constant badgering of Ryan are counter-productive. If he could say something, he would.

I absolutely agree that it&#8217;s disappointing we don&#8217;t have an official statement from Epic one way or another if a Linux client will ever be released. As someone who&#8217;s an avid gamer on Linux, I&#8217;m disappointed I can&#8217;t play one of my favorite franchises. But leave Ryan out of it, he&#8217;s done everything he can.

 [1]: http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NjM2Mg
 [2]: http://www.icculus.org
 [3]: http://planetunreal.gamespy.com/fullstory.php?id=145570