---
title: Learning Python
author: Paul Cutler
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /blog/?p=6273
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
<p class="p1">
  <em>(Orginally written in Day One on November 30th, 2015)</em>
</p>

<p class="p1">
  I’ve decided to learn Python.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  Not only do I have an itch to scratch, but I need a hobby (as I’ve said many times over the last few years since leaving the open source world.)
</p>

<p class="p1">
  Python is supposedly one of the easier languages to learn as a complete beginner.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>It also is supposed to be good at web scraping, which fulfills a specific need I have.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  I started the Codeacademy class for Python last week over the Thanksgiving holiday.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I was about 15% of the way through it and then got hung up on Boolean operators.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Not only did I find them confusing, but I have an issue with the way Codeacademy structured that chapter.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>They basically had you copy and paste the code into their editor, which for me, didn’t teach me anything.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>When it came time to do the quiz, I was hopelessly lost.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>After swearing about that for a few hours and taking a break, my subconscious kicked in and started thinking about it. I then realized that the Boolean operators are going to be exactly what I need to define if a player’s pick is a unique choice in our pool and to double the points for that particular pick.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  But I’m getting ahead of myself.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  In 2013, my friend Stone and I resurrected MLBPool, with the creative name of MLBPool2.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>This was a baseball pool he had been in for ten years that came to an end in 2011.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>You pick which teams will win and lose their division, individual leaders in hitting and pitching categories and that’s it.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>You earn double points if your pick is unique and no one else chose that team or person for that category.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>You can change your picks at the All-Star break, but those changes are only worth half points.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>That’s it &#8211; no daily lineups like fantasy.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I call it *fantasy sports for the lazy*.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Which is perfect for me.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  This year we also started an NFL version, which I’m managing.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>It’s identical except there is no changing your picks at the half way point.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I [manage the website for both at MLBPool2.com](http://mlbpool2.com).
</p>

<p class="p1">
  Every Tuesday morning I have to manually update the Google Sheet.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>The original MLBPool site was written in ASP and was doing web scraping to update the leaders.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I have to believe there is a way to do that again and I’m hoping Python is the answer.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  O’Reilly had a 60% sale over Black Friday, so I bought four books:
</p>

<p class="p1">
  * Introducing Python
</p>

<p class="p1">
  * Learning Python
</p>

<p class="p1">
  * Think Python
</p>

<p class="p1">
  * Python Pocket Reference
</p>

<p class="p1">
  I’m all in.
</p>

<p class="p1">
  The biggest challenge is that there are two versions of Python: 2.7 and 3.5.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>2.7 is legacy and 3.x is the future.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I even emailed an old friend that I haven’t talked to in a few years that I know uses Python.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>(I’m terrible about staying in contact with people, but that’s a different story for another day).<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>My CentOS server on Digital Ocean runs 2.7, as does my Mac.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>He also recommended I start with 2.7.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>But of course the books are focused on the latest and greatest.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I’m hoping I don’t get too confused and can write clean code that works in both, but we’ll see.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Worst case scenario is I learn 3.x code from the books and have to upgrade the server, but we all know how that usually turns out…
</p>

<p class="p1">
  I need a hobby.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I’m hoping I can stick with this.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Even writing in my journal isn’t something I’ve stuck with for as long as I’ve liked, but I have to give it a go.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I’m hoping by the 2017 season I’ll have a beta that’s working, so I have a year and a half….
</p>

<p class="p1">
  With the updates to Day One, maybe I should start a Python journal to document how it’s going.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>(Update: I have started a new journal in Day One called *Python*.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>I may even start blogging my adventures in Python on my personal blog or via DayOne.me).
</p>

<p class="p1">
  <em>January 6th, 2016: And, look!  I did even start blogging my adventures!</em>
</p>